PSEUDOCODE  -   Pseudocode is a detailed yet readable description of what a computer program or algorithm should do. It is written in a formal yet
                readable style that uses a natural syntax and formatting so it can be easily
                understood by programmers and others involved in the development process.

DRY RUN     -    A dry run is the process of a programmer manually working through their code to trace the value of variables. 

MODULUS OPERATOR   -  The modulus operator, sometimes also called the remainder operator or integer remainder operator works on integers (and integer expressions) 
                      and yields the remainder when the first operand is divided by the second.
                      In Python, the modulus operator is a percent sign ( % ). The syntax is the same as for other operators.

 DATA TYPES       -    Char,int,float,boolean

 ARRAY           -  Continuous memory allocation.Array index starts from zero.

 BIT             -   A bit (binary digit) is the smallest unit of data that a computer can process and store.
                     A bit is always in one of two physical states, similar to an on/off light switch. 
                     The state is represented by a single binary value, usually a 0 or 1.
                     However, the state might also be represented by yes/no, on/off or true/false.

BYTE             -   In most computer systems, a byte is a unit of data that is eight binary digits long. 
                     A byte is the unit most computers use to represent a character such as a letter, number or typographic symbol. 
                     Each byte can hold a string of bits that need to be used in a larger unit for application purposes.

BINARY          -     Binary describes a numbering scheme in which there are only two possible values for each digit -- 0 or 1 -- and is 
                      the basis for all binary code used in computing systems.

ASCII VALUE      -     ASCII stands for American Standard Code for Information Interchange.
                       Below is the ASCII character table, including descriptions of the first 32 characters.
                       he range of ASCII values for uppercase letters A-Z is 65-90, and the range for lowercase letters a-z is 97-122.

HOW 0 AND 1 IS REPRESENTED?      1 is true or "on", and 0 is false or "off". 


STORING A VALUE IN COMPUTER?            Each individual data value in a data set is usually stored using one or more bytes of memory.

DECIMAL TO BINARY      -    Divide the number by 2.
                            Get the integer quotient for the next iteration.
                            Get the remainder for the binary digit.
                            Repeat the above steps until the quotient is equal to 0.

BINARY TO DECIMAL      -    Step-1 First we need to multiply 0 with 2 and add the 1st digit in binary number. 
                            Step-2 Now use the result of above step and multiply with 2 and add the second digit of binary number. 
                            The same step 2 is repeated until there will be no digit left.
                            The final result will be the resultant decimal number.

CONSTRUCTS           -      In computer programming, a language construct is "a syntactically allowable part of a program that may be
                            formed from one or more lexical tokens in accordance with the rules of the programming language", 
                            as defined by in the ISO/IEC 2382 standard

LOOPS                -       Loops are a programming element that repeat a portion of code a set number of times until the desired process is complete.
                             Repetitive tasks are common in programming, and loops are essential to save time and minimize errors.

NESTED IF           -       A nested if in C is an if statement that is the target of another if statement.
                            Nested if statements mean an if statement inside another if statement. 
                            Yes, C allow us to nested if statements within if statements, i.e, we can place an if statement inside another if statement.

LOOP WITH IN CONSTRUCTS   -   An array is an ordered list of values that you refer to with a name and an index.
                              For example, consider an array called emp , which contains employees' names indexed by their numerical employee number.
                              So emp[0] would be employee number zero, emp[1] employee number one, and so on.

FUNCTION     -    A function is a block of code which only runs when it is called. You can pass data, known as parameters, into a function.


CLASS       -   a class describes the contents of the objects that belong to it

OBJECT       -   Objects are variables that contain data and functions that can be used to manipulate the data.

TYPES OF MEMORY  -  The memory manager is responsible for allocating memory to Python objects and tracking which objects are currently in use.
                    Python has two types of memory that it uses: stack memory and heap memory. 
                    Stack memory is used for storing function call frames and local variables.
                    Heap memory in Python primarily maintains all objects and data structures,

ENCAPSULATION  -  Binding of methods and function into a single unit.

ABSTRACTION    -  Abstraction in OOPS is used to hide unnecessary information and display only necessary information to the users interacting.

INHERITANCE   -  class derived from another class or base class.

CONSTRUCTOR    - Constructors in Python is a special class method for creating and initializing an object instance at that class. 
                 In Python every class has a constructor; it's not required to define explicitly.
                 The purpose of the constructor is to construct an object and assign a value to the object's members.

SINGLETON PATTERN  -  A Singleton pattern in python is a design pattern that allows you to create just one instance of a class, 
                      throughout the lifetime of a program.

BUILT IN CLASS IN PYTHON - abs()	delattr()	hash()
                           bin()	enumerate()	input()
                           bool()	eval()	int()
                           breakpoint()	exec()	isinstance()
                           bytearray()	filter()	issubclass()

ADDING AND DELETING ITEMS IN LIST - append(): Adds an element to the end of a list.
                                    insert(): Adds an element to a specific index in the list.
                                    remove(): Removes the first occurrence of an element from a list.
                                    pop(): Removes and returns an element from a specific index in the list.

ENUM -  An Enum is a set of symbolic names bound to unique values. 
        They are similar to global variables, but they offer a more useful repr() , grouping, type-safety, and a few other features.
        They are most useful when you have a variable that can take one of a limited selection of values.

DOM - The Document Object Model (DOM) is the data representation of the objects that comprise the structure and content of a document on the web.

THIS operator - 


SERIALIZATION - Serialization refers to the process of converting a data object (e.g., Python objects, Tensorflow models) into a format that allows
                us to store or transmit the data and then recreate the object
                when needed using the reverse process of deserialization.

BUFFER READER -  The following article provides an outline for Python BufferedReader.
                 It retrieves data from a source and stores it in an internal memory queue.
                 This allows subsequent read operations to efficiently retrieve data from the buffered queue
                 instead of directly accessing the underlying reader stream.

GARBAGE COLLECTION - Python's main garbage collection method is a reference counting approach. Each object in Python has a reference count,
                     which shows how many other objects are referencing it. 
                     There are no longer any references to an object when its reference count approaches zero, enabling safe deallocation.

CONSTRUCTOR OVERLOADING - Python does not support constructor overloading. If you try to overload the constructor,
                          the last implementation will be executed each time.










